feat: [CDS-54317]: Adds Documentation for IAM Role (#2138)
harness/developer-hub: docs/continuous-delivery/gitops/create-cluster-with-iam.md

---
title: Create a GitOps Cluster with IAM role
description: Create a Harness GitOps cluster in Amazon EKS and deploy applications to it using an IAM role.
sidebar_position: 6
---

> This topic describes how to create a Harness GitOps cluster in Amazon EKS and deploy applications to it using an IAM role.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This topic describes how to create a Harness GitOps cluster in Amazon EKS and deploy applications to the cluster using an IAM role.
```

## What is an IAM role?

Identity and Access Management (IAM) roles allow you to manage user access and permissions to various Amazon Web Services (AWS) services and resources. IAM roles are sets of permissions that you can assign to AWS services or resources, rather than individual users. 

This tutorial covers how to handle Harness GitOps Agent setup in a multi-cluster AWS environment and deploy applications to those clusters by letting the Agent assume an IAM role. 

:::info

Currently, this feature is behind the feature flag, `GITOPS_IAM`. Contact [Harness Support](mailto:support@harness.io) to enable the feature.

:::

:::info

> GitOps Clusters with IAM roles can be created only for a GitOps Agent installed in Amazon EKS.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
GitOps clusters with IAM roles can be created only for a GitOps Agent installed in Amazon EKS.
```

     `AWS_ACCOUNT_ID=$(aws sts get-caller-identity --query "Account" --output text)`

     `OIDC_PROVIDER=$(aws eks describe-cluster --name management --query "cluster.identity.oidc.issuer" --output text | sed -e "s/^https:\/\///")`
   * Create a `trust.json` file with the variables you set in the previous step. 
     
     You must reference the namespace on which you will deploy your GitOps Agent so that all cluster roles can assume the IAM role you'll create in the next step.

     ```

     read -r -d '' TRUST_RELATIONSHIP <<EOF
     {
       "Version": "2012-10-17",
       "Statement": [
         {
           "Effect": "Allow",
           "Principal": {
             "Federated": "arn:aws:iam::${AWS_ACCOUNT_ID}:oidc-provider/${OIDC_PROVIDER}"
           },
           "Action": "sts:AssumeRoleWithWebIdentity",
           "Condition": {
             "StringLike": {
               "${OIDC_PROVIDER}:sub": "system:serviceaccount:iam:*"
             }
           }
         }
       ]
     }
     EOF

     echo "${TRUST_RELATIONSHIP}" > trust.json && cat trust.json 

     ```

>      Make sure that the `trust.json` file includes the proper `AWS_ACCOUNT_ID` and `OIDC_PROVIDER`. You will use `trust.json` while creating the IAM role:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     Make sure that the `trust.json` file includes the proper `AWS_ACCOUNT_ID` and `OIDC_PROVIDER`:
```

     ```

     aws iam create-role --role-name ArgoCD --assume-role-policy-document file://trust.json --description "IAM Role to be used by Harness GitOps Agent to gain AWS access"

     ```
   * Create an inline policy that gives the IAM role the ability to assume other roles so that GitOps Agent can assume the Deployer role that you'll create later.

>      You could also use the ArgoCD role directly for this purpose, but having a separate role to deploy resources into the testing cluster is generally more flexible and more secure.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     You could also use the ArgoCD role directly. However, having a separate role to deploy resources into the testing cluster is recommended as it is more flexible and secure.
```

     ```

     It is important that the annotations show the correct ARN of the ArgoCD Role otherwise the Agent won't know which IAM role to assume. 

   * Verify that the service accounts are changed correctly using the following commands:

     ```
     kubectl -n iam describe serviceaccount gitops-agent

     kubectl -n iam describe serviceaccount argocd-application-controller
     ```

   * Patch the deployments to set the `securityContext/fsGroup` to `999` so that the Docker image user can use the IAM authenticator. 
     
     The IAM authenticator tries to mount a secret on `/var/run/secrets/eks.amazonaws.com/serviceaccount/token`. If the correct `fsGroup` (999 corresponds to the ArgoCD user) isn't set, it will fail.

     ```
     kubectl -n iam patch deployment gitops-agent --type=json  \
         -p='[{"op": "add", "path": "/spec/template/spec/securityContext/fsGroup", "value": 999}]'

     kubectl -n iam patch statefulset argocd-application-controller --type=json \
         -p='[{"op": "add", "path": "/spec/template/spec/securityContext/fsGroup", "value": 999}]'
     ```

>      After patching Deployment and StatefulSet, you can see the `application-controller` and `gitops-agent` pods restart.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     After patching Deployment and StatefulSet, the `application-controller` and `gitops-agent` pods restart.
```

     eksctl create iamidentitymapping --cluster testing  --arn arn:aws:iam::${AWS_ACCOUNT_ID}:role/Deployer --group system:masters --username deployer
     ```

3. Register the testing cluster with Harness to create and deploy applications.
   
   * In Harness, select **Deployments** > **GitOps**.
   * Select **Settings** on the top right corner, and then select **Clusters** > **New Cluster**.
   * Enter a name for the cluster.
   * Select the GitOps Agent, and then select **Continue**.
   * In **Details**:
     - **Master URL**: Enter the HTTP endpoint of the Kubernetes API of the server.
     - **Authentication**: Select **IRSA**. IRSA stands for IAM Roles for Service Accounts.
     - **Role ARN**: Enter the role your GitOps Agent will have to assume to deploy to this cluster.
     - **Certificate Authority Data**: Enter the corresponding public certificate of the Kubernetes API.

     ![](static/create-cluster-iam-87.png)

   You have successfully created a cluster in Harness with the connection status, `unknown`.

4. Deploy applications to your cluster.

>    You can now deploy applications to your cluster through Harness. Go to [Add a Harness GitOps Application](harness-cd-git-ops-quickstart.md#step-4-add-a-harness-gitops-application) for more details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   You can now deploy applications to your cluster through Harness. Go to [Add a Harness GitOps application](harness-cd-git-ops-quickstart.md#step-4-add-a-harness-gitops-application) for more details.
```
